A little more less than three years ago, I started writing about the worst 2 and a half years of my life. This time was plagued by some of the worst mistakes I made during my lifetime, a heinous amount of regret, and best of all, countless amounts of lessons. As a now 22-year-old Shawn Timothy Bryant Jr., I no longer will look at roadblocks and challenges as just negative events that just happen for no reason. I now understand the beauty in God’s plan for everyone and I understand that although we were made for good, we as sinners will inevitably sin but God specializes in turning our bad deeds into good. Similarly, he also is a master navigator and knows how to redirect our path whenever we stray away. The previous chapter of my life highlighted my transformation from an immature high school student with pride issues to a humbled college graduate that… still does have pride issues, but they are better now, and this is a work in process. 
My time at ODU has been such an awesome experience, I saw my best academic performances yet, some of the worst betrayal I’ve ever experienced, the highest workload and stress levels I’ve experienced yet, the best networking opportunities I’ve ever experienced, as well seeing myself become closer to God than ever before, which is the biggest blessing here clearly. Along with my unfortunate experiences of great envy, hurt, betrayal, dishonesty, robbery, disrespect, unfair judgement, misdirected projection, and unjustified hostility, I have learned forgiveness, patience, mercy, grace, and the ability to effectively pray for others despite their trespasses towards me.
So, it all started in 2022 when I first arrived at Old Dominion University. I was very excited to meet new people, experience the actual ‘College life’, learn new things, and hopefully get internships with Google after my senior year and have a software development job waiting for me before I graduated. I was also looking to get summa cume laude when I graduated because I was very close but got played by a professor at John Tyler. It is what it is. Not something I am happy about, but life goes on regardless. So as soon as I got to campus, I felt welcomed! I had the honor to meet so many different like-minded people and was excited to be able to be around so many unique communities. I had friends that were already here for the first two years so that was my original community. As a social being however, I wanted to meet other people and become a part of other communities as well. My solution was joining clubs, rushing frats, and making conversation with people in my living vicinity as well as those sharing my same academic major just to gain more friends, connections, etc. I met a few close friends within the first week and after just a few hangouts, we bonded, and the semester started. As the semester went on, syllabus week ended, friends got busy, and life started to happen to everyone. I realized very quickly that I would need to lock in and locking in looked a lot like following up with every professor and becoming best friends with the nerd in each of my classes every chance I could get. I discovered a computer science tutoring center that was in the same building majority of my classes were in and started to go there whenever I needed help with an assignment; Which was everyday because I needed help with almost every single assignment over the course of the entire year. I started to become a regular in the tutoring center as I started to see major gaps in my knowledge as a transfer student coming from a small community college when comparing knowledge to that of the students that started their collegiate careers here in Norfolk. There were tons of subjects and topics that I was expected to have known already and that clearly was not the case. I was a semester behind in classes and really needed help catching up. I became familiar with some of the tutors and even developed friendships that would turn into lifelong friendships! These tutors were not just people that were sitting in an office for a few hours to get a paycheck, but they were students that were passionate about their studies, job candidates hungry to show their potential in the workforce, and humans that cared to see others learn and succeed with them. I was not met with judgement when I went into the tutoring center and was instead encouraged and educated on those areas where I was not familiar. Overtime, I started to catch up and even exceed the expected understanding level of those in these classes and after I was familiar, I started helping others out too! Of course, I was doing it for free, but I saw how much of a blessing these people were to me so I really wanted to make a difference and bless others. However, what I didn’t notice at the time, was that this would be one of my first big mistakes. 
People would start taking advantage of my kindness and asking more often than I was available for help knowing I was busy. People became ‘friends’ with me not to actually be friends, but just to make sure they had a failsafe option just in case they were struggling in class. I started to take note of this and accordingly tried to start making myself less available. This was not the only area where I was giving too many people my time however. As much as I avoided potential romantic relationships, I had an issue with giving females entirely too much attention. This led to me getting played for the first time in my first year at ODU. I provided the benefits of a boyfriend without the title, I would buy one girl food, spend quality with her, help her with homework, and do all kinds of gestures with the intention of becoming more than good friends with this girl. After a few weeks, chemistry really flared up and she was comfortable with me sharing deep experiences and spending long nights in my dorm. These were signs to me that she was interested and very clear signs to my close friends as well who encouraged me to pursue her. However, this would backfire horribly when one day I asked her about a relationship and she said that I was like a brother to her. I was not crushed by this but it did leave me a little confused. Why would she waste all of this time with me if she didn’t want a relationship? Why would she constantly hit my phone up trying to make sure I’m good and available. My conclusion, she needed attention from a male. More specifically, a male who had a low self esteem so she could easily take advantage of him. It’s very easy to be used when you don’t know what you’re worth. This was one of the many lessons I would have to learn during this next phase in my life. I wanted to still be cool with her afterwards but was pretty much done with the relationship side of things. Then life took a weird turn as my cousin would then catch her interest, my first exam in Linear Algebra would turn out to be a 42, and I would begin to really get involved in a number of clubs. Up to this point, the semester was going great academically and I didn’t really have many complaints. There was a professor for my math class that was very condescending though. Ke Shi was not a good professor and I did not enjoy him or his class at all. He laughed at me when I came to him for help on questions I got wrong, lied to me about his homework policy, and judged me openly during class when I tried to be courageous and take a stab at a question. I was doing well in his class for the first couple of weeks and had a 96 going into the first exam. I did not feel too confident taking the exam but I knew that I was going to pass it. Until I didn’t. As soon as I finished the exam, I went back to my room and cried on the phone to my mom because I knew I completely bombed that exam. When this occurred, I was down bad at school for the first time and went through a depressive academic episode. I had a lot of pressure on me to make good grades as a child and felt as though my value came from my academic performance. Therefore, whenever I brought home a bad grade, I felt like a failure. This carried on into my collegiate career and led to this breakdown which would be the first of many. I was in the dining hall with my friends when the grades were posted and saw my cousin walking with the girl that was just interested in me. My friends noted that and felt it was weird because all three of us knew each other pretty well and my cousin definitely knew that she was interested in me. However, that did not stop him from taking the remainder of the semester and constantly trying to put himself in a position to pursue. My friends looked at my grade for me and insensitively laughed in my face as they saw the failing grade. I asked them how bad it was and one of them said it was horrible. They did not hesitate to let me know as they ripped the band-aid off and told me that I scored a 42% on the test. I was devastated and did not know what to do with myself. I had already broke down on the phone with my mother and was not necessarily looking to emulate that vulnerability in a public setting. I just kept my true feelings internal and played it off as if I were fine and focused on the next exam. This was not actually the case. My cousin and the girl that he was pursuing ended up being there to try and make me feel better, which did help to an extent. At this point I was completely locked in on Linear Algebra, I stopped hanging out with people, only went to the gym, class, and club events, when I was not receiving my own tutoring or eating. This hard work would seem to pay off when I received my grade for my second midterm. I passed! Although it was not a high grade, it was a 61 which was a lot easier on the eye than a 42. I was still upset and at a point where working out was a coping mechanism. Still no time for hanging out, only tutoring sessions, office hours, and late night studying.
